Basics/data-dbms-database.md, before:

Definitions in SQL: 

* **Sql**: Its a query language that helps user to interact with the underlying relational database.
* **Database**: Its a collection of inter-related information
* **Information**: A processed data
* **Data**: Raw facts and figures that has no meaning
* **Relational Database**: This is a type of data storage method wherein the information will be stored in a series of tables that are connected through data relationships.
* **Relationships in Sql**: With the help of common fields/attributes of 2 tables, we establish an association between two or more tables. Often, the fields involves Primary and Foreign Keys.


***

**Architecture of DBMS**: DBMS has a layered architecture and there are 3 layers/levels as listed below: 

1. **The Physical Layer**: This is the level that is close to the database.

2. **The Intermediate Layer**: This layer exists in between Physical layer and Logical layer.

3. **The User View/Logical Layer**: The layer that directly interacts with the user and will remain close to the user.

***

**Users of Database**
1. End User
2. Database Designers
3. Database Administrators
4. Application Developers



***
1. Types of Operators: 

a. Arithmetic Operators: These are the operators that we use in the Select Clause with the attributes. Ex. +, -, *, /

b. Logical Operators: We use Logical operators in the Where Clause to specify more than 1 condition. Ex. AND, OR, NOT

c. Relational Operators: The operators that compares the conditions and to be used in the Where Clause to specify the conditions. Ex. =,>,<>


1.a: Order of Execution: 
    1. Relational
    2. Logical 
    3. Arithmetic 
***

2. **Types of Functions in SQL**: Broadly speaking, there are 2 types of Functions. Single Row Functions and Multi-row functions 

a: Types of Single-row Functions in SQL: These functions are further classified into the below: 

a. Numeric/Arithmetic Functions

b. Aggregate Functions

c. String Functions

d. Date Functions

e. Character Functions  



b: Multi-row Functions: Decode & Joins are popular Multi-row functions.

***

 Fragments of Secondary Storage: 
 > **File Storage**: In this part of secondary storage we can store any files that may or may not necessarily have a certain meaning and the user can access this storage without an intermediary. The search happens in this kind of storage is called Linear or Sequential.

 > **Database Storage**: Unlike the File Storage, the data that the user intends to store must have some meaning and all the data elements should be related to one another. The search happens in this storage is Binary Search.

***
Fragments of Database: 
 > **Data Part**: This is the part of database where the data values are stored
 
 > **Meta Data**: This part of the database maintains the data about the data. Meta Data aka Data Dictionary or Data Catalog.  

 ***

Commit message:

Added the explanation for users of database

Basics/data-dbms-database.md, after:

Definitions in SQL: 

* **Sql**: Its a query language that helps user to interact with the underlying relational database.
* **Database**: Its a collection of inter-related information
* **Information**: A processed data
* **Data**: Raw facts and figures that has no meaning
* **Relational Database**: This is a type of data storage method wherein the information will be stored in a series of tables that are connected through data relationships.
* **Relationships in Sql**: With the help of common fields/attributes of 2 tables, we establish an association between two or more tables. Often, the fields involves Primary and Foreign Keys.


***

**Architecture of DBMS**: DBMS has a layered architecture and there are 3 layers/levels as listed below: 

1. **The Physical Layer**: This is the level that is close to the database.

2. **The Intermediate Layer**: This layer exists in between Physical layer and Logical layer.

3. **The User View/Logical Layer**: The layer that directly interacts with the user and will remain close to the user.

***

**Users of Database**
1. **End User**: The ultimate users of database who can view and access the data
2. **Database Designers**: DBD have privilege of defining and creating the database and the users who lets DBDs or authorizes DBDs to define and create the database are called DBAs.
3. **Database Administrators**: DBAs are sole custodian of entire database.
4. **Application Developers**: Developers are the users who build the front-end applications.



***
1. Types of Operators: 

a. Arithmetic Operators: These are the operators that we use in the Select Clause with the attributes. Ex. +, -, *, /

b. Logical Operators: We use Logical operators in the Where Clause to specify more than 1 condition. Ex. AND, OR, NOT

c. Relational Operators: The operators that compares the conditions and to be used in the Where Clause to specify the conditions. Ex. =,>,<>


1.a: Order of Execution: 
    1. Relational
    2. Logical 
    3. Arithmetic 
***

2. **Types of Functions in SQL**: Broadly speaking, there are 2 types of Functions. Single Row Functions and Multi-row functions 

a: Types of Single-row Functions in SQL: These functions are further classified into the below: 

a. Numeric/Arithmetic Functions

b. Aggregate Functions

c. String Functions

d. Date Functions

e. Character Functions  



b: Multi-row Functions: Decode & Joins are popular Multi-row functions.

***

 Fragments of Secondary Storage: 
 > **File Storage**: In this part of secondary storage we can store any files that may or may not necessarily have a certain meaning and the user can access this storage without an intermediary. The search happens in this kind of storage is called Linear or Sequential.

 > **Database Storage**: Unlike the File Storage, the data that the user intends to store must have some meaning and all the data elements should be related to one another. The search happens in this storage is Binary Search.

***
Fragments of Database: 
 > **Data Part**: This is the part of database where the data values are stored
 
 > **Meta Data**: This part of the database maintains the data about the data. Meta Data aka Data Dictionary or Data Catalog.  

 ***
